# FinalProject
AI Model for Detection of Emotions of Voice signals
Introduction:
Emotion recognition is a specialised process that happens in the brain which can identify the emotions of humans and animals. The inner structure of the brain is designed by neurons which are used in transmitting and receiving pulses from sensory organs to the brain. When humans see someone, the signal is transmitted from the cells of eyes to the brain, and the mind identifies the emotions that are being visualised. Another organ that helps in recognising emotion is the ear. When humans hear something, the sound waves are transmitted to the brain, which identifies the emotions of the person through the tone. Both organs, eye and ear, act as sensors and hence, convert the external energy to the internal or system compatible pulse which the brain recognises. It is a fact that humans can recognise the sound through ears and scenario by eyes. However, not all humans are equal in such recognition and may not use the same strategy. Thus, the accuracy of understanding varies from person to person. When understanding emotions is that complex, can a computer identify the emotions?  Perhaps, It can. With artificial intelligence, a system could be trained to identify emotions. When a human understands specific emotion, the human certainly recognises emotions of a similar kind. With that learning, the brain system, which captures the image of the emotion in the form of fluid, can identify and understand any scenario. In the same way, an artificial system can also be trained with the previous data with different types of emotions, and the system can then identify any emotion which would be subjected to it. So, a system can be designed, which can detect and identify the emotions and accurately produce the output with less error in the classification. In this research, the Artificial Intelligence approach is emphasised for the detection and recognition of human emotions through the speech signals in real-time. In this context, the system is planned to be designed with the application of Deep Learning and with a due comparison of the other efficient algorithms in machine learning. 

